---
author: psgs
layout: post
excerpt: >
  Since it was founded, the video sharing service YouTube has gained enormous popularity,
  being bought by Google in 2006 and receiving over four billion video views per day. What
  makes this service so popular? How has the simple idea of sharing videos produced a
  world-changing platform?
categories:
  - thoughts
tags:
  - youtube
  - video
  - platform
reading-time: 5 minutes
title: What makes YouTube such a successful platform?
---

Although some avid fans may iterate that YouTube's success is simply due to its network of Google-backed advertising and the presence of its videos in modern-day life, I, as a proud addict of comic YouTube videos, believe that a greater force is at work.
YouTube, when viewed from afar, affects a phenomenally large number of our lives.
YouTube helps us design, write, create, enjoy and have fun, all over the world.
As possibly the world's largest and most successful self-improvement tool, YouTube has the power to change lives in many ways.
Creators of videos, such as the well-known [PewDiePie](https://www.youtube.com/PewDiePie) develop entertaining or useful content, which is then viewed by many of us across the world.
Often unknowingly, however, this content shapes the way we interact, both online and in person.
A bond is created between actor and audience, creator and consumer. Thoughts are told, ideas are shared, and, through the experience, both creator and consumer become richer; more aware.
A tool for social change is harnessed, allowing like-minded people to connect with each other and shatter the social norm.

> YouTube has the power to allow anybody to do anything, or become anyone.

YouTube's success builds upon how socially accessible it has become. Throughout the day, videos are posted, shared, tweeted and recommended to us, promising to shed light on an issue, explain a concept, or relieve us from the day's mundane tasks.
In many classrooms, YouTube has become an accepted learning tool, creating new opportunities for content to be aimed at students.
Channels such as [history/science bootcamp here]() take advantage of such an opportunity, allowing them to grow and explore business opportunities. In turn, these creators increase YouTube's popularity by appealing to a new group of people.
The fact that each of YouTube's videos is created by users unimaginably increases YouTube's ability to cater for all people in a scalable way.

> YouTube's primary source of value is produced by people, for people.

Opportunity, however, is not only restricted to creator and consumer. Businesses, spreading their roots across YouTube, have connected networks of consumers with networks of creators, powering the growth of smaller YouTube channels whilst profiting from the revenue generated by such. In this sense, a form of dual opportunity, between creator and business is formed.
Creators are able to benefit from the resources of a corporate organisation. Both parties are then able to benefit from the creator's advertising revenue and exposure to views.

YouTube takes an idea that is quite ordinary and turns it into something life-changing. An idea as simple as self-expression is harnessed, projected across the internet, and made available for countless viewers to interpret and explore.
Inspiration for the latest life-saving technology, motivation to change the world and the opportunity to improve one's abilities could all be fruits of such an interaction. *What could you do with such an opportunity?*
